switch to vitepress (#19)
wires-org/wire: doc/guide/wire.md

# What is Wire?

Wire is a tool to deploy NixOS systems. Its configuration is a superset[^1] of [colmena](https://colmena.cli.rs/), however it is **not** a fork.

[^1]: Any colmena configuration will continue to work with wire, but wire has additional ergonomic changes you can take advantage of.

::: warning
Wire is alpha software, please use at your own risk. Many features listed in this documentation may not be complete / implemented.
:::

<div class="tip custom-block" style="padding-top: 8px">

Ready? Skip to the [Quickstart](./getting-started).

</div>

## Why Wire?

::: info

> The following is the goal for a v1 release and not wholly implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the goal for a stable release and not fully implemented yet.
```
not to be copied verbatim, just a suggestion nothing more nothing less

:::

| Features | Wire | Colmena |
| -------------- | ------------- | -------- |

> | Keys & Secrets | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Secret management | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
```

Something like this, keys & secrets is redundant phrasing as they're synonyms in this context.

> | Parrallel Evaluation | :white_check_mark: | [Experiemental](https://colmena.cli.rs/unstable/features/parallelism.html#parallel-evaluation-experimental) |

Reviewer: Typos at `Parrallel` and `Experiemental`

Author: vim spell doesnt match inside markdown tables wtf

| Node Tagging | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| `jq` pipeline support | :white_check_mark: | :x:[^2] |
| Magic Rollback | :white_check_mark: (Planned) | :x: |

> [^2]: You need to write custom nix code to use Colmena hive metadata inside environments like CI piplines, bash scripting, etc., which requires a knowledge of its internals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^2]: Colmena doesn't explicitly support scripting capabilities nor CI out of the box without having to write custom Nix expressions.
```

something like that yada yada don't copy it verbatim, also typos

Author: We dont have support for ci per-say just support for dumping metadata as json so i think my original phasing is more accurate
